Graduation with Latin Honors
The University shall grant a Latin honor to graduating students in the
undergraduate programs with a General Weighted Average (GWA) of 1.6000
(rounded off to the nearest ten thousandths) or better and who have satisfied all
the prescribed requirements for graduation with Latin Honors.
I. Criteria and Implementing Rules
A. Eligibility of Students
In general, only students who took their whole degree program at the
University are eligible for the academic award of a Latin honor.
However, transfer students may also be considered, subject to the
terms and conditions set forth in II.A and other provisions relating to
transfer students.
B. Computation of the General Weighted Average
In the computation of the GWA, only the grades in the subjects that are
credited for the degree program for which the student is a candidate
shall be considered, including Physical Education (PE). Grades in the
National Service Training Program (NSTP) and non-credited subjects
required in the curriculum shall not be included in the computation.
C. Grade Requirements
1. A student who shall obtain the following GWA shall be awarded the
 corresponding Latin Honor:
 1.0000* to 1.2000* — Summa cum laude
 1.2001* to 1.4000* — Magna cum laude
 1.4001* to 1.6000* — Cum laude
 (* rounded off to the nearest ten thousandths)
In case of programs with a prescribed length shorter than four
school years, the descriptive equivalents of “With Highest Honors,”
“With High Honors” and “With Honors” shall be used in lieu of the
above.
2. The student shall have no failing grade of “5.00” and/or a non-
 passing mark of “D” or “W” in all subjects, whether credited or
 non-credited.
40UNIVERSITY OF THE EAST
D. Load Requirement
The student must have taken during each semester not less 18 units
of the regular load (excluding NSTP and other non-credited subjects)
prescribed in the curriculum, except on certain conditions provided
for under II.B.
E. Completion Period of the Degree Program
1. The student shall have completed a four-year degree program in
 not more than four school years (i.e., eight consecutive semesters),
 a five-year program in not more than five school years (i.e., 10
 consecutive semesters) or a six-year program in not more than six
 school years (i.e., 12 consecutive semesters).
2. The student shall have completed all the academic requirements of
 the University.
3. Enrollment in two summer terms, unless prescribed by the
 curriculum, will be considered as equivalent to one semester.
F. No Record of Misconduct or Misbehavior
The student must have no record of misconduct or misbehavior
during his/her entire stay in the University.
II. Exceptions to the Criteria
A. For Transfer Students
In very meritorious cases, as recommended by the Dean, through
the Chancellor, and approved by the Academic Council, a transfer
student, with excellent academic records, in toto, both in his/her
previous school and in UE, may be considered for a Latin Honor
under the following terms and conditions:
1. Completion Period of the Degree Program
A transferee shall have completed a four-year degree program
in not more than four school years (i.e., eight consecutive
semesters), a five-year program in not more than five years
(i.e., 10 consecutive semesters) or a six-year program in not
more than six school years (i.e., 12 consecutive semesters),
respectively, reckoning from the start of his/her enrollment
in the previous school. Enrollment in two summer terms,
unless prescribed by the curriculum, will be considered as
equivalent to one semester.
A transferee shall have completed 50% of the General Education
courses/subjects and 75% of the major/core courses/subjects in
UE.
4141 STUDENT MANUAL 2023 EDITION
2. Grade Requirement
In the computation of the GWA, the transfer student’s grades in the
credited subjects taken in the previous school shall be considered
with certain conditions, as follows:
• A transferee vying for the Latin honor of Summa cum laude
should have a GWA of 1.0000 to 1.2000 (rounded off to the
nearest ten thousandths), with no grade in any subject lower
than 1.50 or its equivalent. In case he/she obtained a grade of
1.75 in any subject from his/her previous school, he/she shall
be awarded the Latin honor of Magna cum laude.
• A transferee vying for the Latin honor of Magna cum laude
should have a GWA of 1.2001 to 1.4000 (rounded off to the
nearest ten thousandths), with no grade in any subject lower
than 1.75 or its equivalent. In case he/she obtained a grade of
2.00 in any subject from his/her previous school, he/she shall
be awarded the Latin honor of Cum laude.
• A transferee who is vying for the Latin honor of Cum laude
should have a GWA of 1.4001 to 1.6000 (rounded off to the
nearest ten thousandths), with no grade in any subject lower
than 2.00 or its equivalent. In case he/she obtained a grade
lower than 2.00 in any subject from his/her previous school,
he/she is disqualified from attaining a Latin honor.
• Any non-passing mark shall automatically disqualify a
transferee from receiving a Latin honor. Non-passing marks
include “5.00,” “D” and “W” or their equivalent.
3. Load Requirement
A transferee must have taken during each semester not less than
18 units of the regular load (excluding NSTP and other noncredited subjects) prescribed in the curriculum, except on certain
conditions provided for under II. B.
4. No Record of Misconduct or Misbehavior
A transferee must have no record of misconduct or misbehavior
during his/her entire stay in the previous school and in UE.
42UNIVERSITY OF THE EAST
B. For Academic Load Requirements
In general, only candidates for graduation, both transferees and nontransferees, who have taken during each semester not less than 18 units
of the regular load (excluding NSTP and other non-credited subjects)
prescribed in the curriculum are qualified for a Latin honor. However,
exceptions may be granted for any of the following conditions subject
to the approval of the Chancellor as recommended by the Dean and
the University Registrar:
1. A lesser load is specified in a particular term in the curriculum.
2. The subject required to complete the minimum load is unavailable
due to circumstances beyond the student’s control, e.g., cancellation
of a subject due to the unavailability of faculty, inadequate enrollees,
transfer of a subject to another semester, or a required subject is not
available in the college or any other college.
3. The student is in his/her final term.